---
obsidianUIMode: preview
cssclass: pf2e,pf2e-spell
tags:
- compendium/src/pf2e/som
- spell/level/10
- trait/conjuration
- trait/incarnate
- trait/rare
aliases: ["Summon Kaiju"]
---
# Summon Kaiju *Spell 10*   
[conjuration](../../rules/traits/conjuration.md)  [incarnate](../../rules/traits/incarnate-som.md)  [rare](../../rules/traits/rare.md)  

- **Traditions**: [primal](../../rules/traits/primal.md)
- **Cast** [>>>](../../rules/core-rulebook/chapter-9-playing-the-game.md#Actions "Three-Action") 
- **Range**500 foot
- **Duration**until the end of your next turn

You briefly conjure a kaiju, a massive, rampaging monster with a unique name and legendary reputation.

It rises from its secluded lair to annihilate your foes. The summoned kaiju occupies the space of a [Gargantuan](../../rules/traits/gargantuan-b1.md) creature. When you [Cast this Spell](../../rules/actions/cast-a-spell.md), choose one of the kaiju below to summon.

- **Agmazar the Star Titan** Speed 100 feet, climb 50 feet; **Arrive** ([necromancy](../../rules/traits/necromancy.md), [negative](../../rules/traits/negative.md)) _Channel Void_ Each foe in a 100-foot emanation takes `16d8` negative energy damage with a basic Fortitude save; **Depart** ([transmutation](../../rules/traits/transmutation.md)) Gravitic Repulsion Each foe in a 50-foot emanation is pushed 100 feet away unless it succeeds at a Fortitude save.
- **Agyra, the Forever Storm** Speed 80 feet, fly 200 feet; **Arrive** ([electricity](../../rules/traits/electricity.md), [evocation](../../rules/traits/evocation.md)) _Breath of a Thousand Storms_ Agyra shoots two 1,200-foot lines of electricity, one from each of her heads. The lines can't overlap. Each creature along one of the lines takes `6d12` electricity damage with a basic Reflex save. On a failure, the creature is also [slowed](../../rules/conditions.md#Slowed) for 1 round (or for 1 minute on a critical failure); **Depart** ([evocation](../../rules/traits/evocation.md), [sonic](../../rules/traits/sonic.md)) _Thunderous Blast_ Each creature within a 100-foot emanation takes `6d10` sonic damage with a basic Reflex save, and is also knocked [prone](../../rules/conditions.md#Prone) on a failed save.
- **Bezravnis, the Inferno Below** Speed 100 feet, burrow 100 feet; **Arrive** ([earth](../../rules/traits/earth.md), [evocation](../../rules/traits/evocation.md)) _Burrow from the Earth's Heart_ Bezravnis explodes from the ground where it was summoned, causing all creatures in a 50-foot emanation to take `8d12` bludgeoning damage with a basic Reflex save. This potentially collapses structures with the collapse effect of the [earthquake](earthquake.md) spell, except there is no chance of falling into a fissure; **Depart** _Web Hurricane_ Bezravnis departs with a hurricane of webbing. All creatures within a 50-foot emanation must succeed at a Reflex save or take a –20-foot circumstance penalty to its Speeds until it [Escapes](../../rules/actions/escape.md) (or is [immobilized](../../rules/conditions.md#Immobilized) until it escapes on a critical failure). The [Escape](../../rules/actions/escape.md) DC is your spell DC.
- **Mogaru, the Final King** Speed 100 feet, swim 100 feet; **Arrive** ([auditory](../../rules/traits/auditory.md), [enchantment](../../rules/traits/enchantment.md), [mental](../../rules/traits/mental.md)) _Trance of the King's Melody_ Mogaru manifests with a burst of the song that summoned him, requiring all foes within 60 feet who can hear him to attempt a Will save, leaving them [stunned](../../rules/conditions.md#Stunned) on a failure; **Depart** ([evocation](../../rules/traits/evocation.md), [fire](../../rules/traits/fire.md)) _Volcanic Breath_ Mogaru unleashes his scorching breath in a 120-foot cone. Each creature in the area takes `10d6` fire damage with a basic Reflex save. On a failure, it also takes `4d6` [persistent fire damage](../../rules/conditions.md#Persistent%20Damage).
- **Vorgozen, the Shapeless Feeder** Speed 50 feet, climb 50 feet, swim 100 feet; **Arrive** ([necromancy](../../rules/traits/necromancy.md)) _Pollute Magic_ Vorgozen's foul presence pollutes magic around her. Each of your enemies within a 60-foot emanation that are under the effects of a spell must attempt a Fortitude save. On a failure, the creature is [sickened](../../rules/conditions.md#Sickened). Any of your enemies that [Casts a Spell](../../rules/actions/cast-a-spell.md) within 60 feet of Vorgozen must attempt a Fortitude save with the same effects unless it's already [sickened](../../rules/conditions.md#Sickened); **Depart** ([acid](../../rules/traits/acid.md), [evocation](../../rules/traits/evocation.md)) _Beam of Purest Vitriol_ Each creature in a 1,200-foot line takes `10d6` acid damage and `10d6` bludgeoning damage with a basic Fortitude save.
- **Yarthoon, the Moon Grub** Speed 60 feet, burrow 100 feet, fly 100 feet, swim 100 feet; **Arrive** ([cold](../../rules/traits/cold.md), [evocation](../../rules/traits/evocation.md)) _Algid Beam Barrage_ Yarthoon fires countless beams, targeting each of your enemies within 200 feet of it. The beams deal `10d6` cold damage with a basic Reflex save; **Depart** ([cold](../../rules/traits/cold.md), [conjuration](../../rules/traits/conjuration.md), [water](../../rules/traits/water.md)) _Frostbite Mist_ Chilling mist surges out in a 100-foot burst centered on Yarthoon and remains for 1 minute. This mist has the effects of [obscuring mist](obscuring-mist.md), plus any creature within the area at the end of its turn take `5d6` cold damage with a basic Fortitude save.
- **Ebeshra, the Winged Razor** Speed 75 feet, fly 100 feet; **Arrive** ([conjuration](../../rules/traits/conjuration.md), [teleportation](../../rules/traits/teleportation.md)) _Planar Draw_ Each foe in a 100-foot emanation is pulled 50 feet towards the center, unless it succeeds at a Fortitude save. Creatures that fail and reach the center take `10d6` bludgeoning damage; **Depart** ([electricity](../../rules/traits/electricity.md), [evocation](../../rules/traits/evocation.md)) _Storm Discharge_ Each foe in a 240-foot line takes `12d8` electricity damage with a basic Reflex save

*Source: Secrets of Magic p. 133*