---
aliases: [Infuse Effigy]
created: 2023-04-27
updated: 2023-04-28
---

## Infuse Effigy

**source**:: Lands of the Linnorm Kings pg. 48  
**school**:: necromancy (curse)
**level**:: arcanist 4, cleric 4, druid 4, hunter 4, oracle 4, sorcerer 4, warpriest 4, wizard 4

### Casting

**casting-time**:: 1 hour  
**components**:: V, S, F (effigy to be imbued)

### Effect

**range**:: touch  
**target**:: touched effigy  
**duration**:: Permanent until discharged (D)

### Description

This spell infuses an effigy with a powerful curse that targets a specific type of creature associated in some way with the effigy itself. When you cast this spell, it remains in effect until it is discharged. Once you cast *infuse effigy*, you cannot prepare a new 4th-level spell to replace it or cast another spell with its spell slot until you dismiss the *infuse effigy* spell or until it is discharged against a foe. If the number of 4th-level spells that you can cast decreases, and that number drops below your current number of *infuse effigy* spells, the more recently cast *infuse effigy* spells in excess of the number of 4th-level spells you can now cast are dispelled.  
  
The nature of the curse that becomes infused into the effigy you touch depends more on the nature of the effigy than anything else. You can cast this spell on a standard effigy (such as a head stuck onto a spike, or on a body hanging from a tree), but can generate more powerful effects by casting the spell on one of the more elaborate effigies detailed above-in this case, it is the established traditions of the effigy as much as the effigy itself that empowers the curse. The larger effigies, such as the tree of souls and the wicker man, have minimum caster level requirements; you must be this level or higher in order to cast *infuse effigy* on such a target.  
  
Once an effigy is infused, it radiates an aura of unease to a radius of 5 feet per caster level-the first time a creature enters this area, it must make a Will save or become shaken for 1 minute per caster level. This effect can only occur once per creature and is a mind-affecting fear effect. As long as an effigy remains under the effects of this spell, the body parts associated with the effigy become preserved as if by *gentle repose*. Once an effigy has been the focus for an *infuse effigy* spell, it can never again be the target of this spell-a new effigy must be constructed from new victims if you wish to recreate it. An infused effigy is treated as a magic item for the purposes of saving throws.  
  
An infused effigy has an additional effect on creatures of the same type as the largest creature incorporated into the effigy. If the largest creature is a humanoid or outsider, the additional effect only affects creatures of the largest creature’s subtype. Creatures of this type (and subtype) take a -2 penalty on the saving throw against the effigy’s aura, and as soon as such creatures attack or damage the effigy (from any distance) or approach within 10 feet of it, they must make a Will saving throw or become cursed. If a creature becomes cursed by an infused effigy, the spell effect on the effigy ends (and the caster can now use that spell slot to prepare or cast spells again), but the curse itself is permanent until it is removed. If the creature that triggers the effigy was close friends with or related to anyone whose body was used to construct the effigy, that creature takes a -4 penalty on the Will save to avoid becoming cursed. The specific effects of each type of effigy’s curse are listed below. At the GM’s discretion, other specific effigies might exist, along with specific effects they exhibit when they are the subject of an *infuse effigy* spell.  
  
**Standard Effigy Curse (no minimum CL)**: -2 penalty to an ability score chosen by the caster.  
  
**Blood Eagle Curse (no minimum CL)**: -4 penalty to Constitution and -4 penalty on all saving throws against fear effects.  
  
**Nithing Pole Curse (no minimum CL)**: Any effect that can be generated by a *bestow curse* spell.  
  
**Tree of Souls Curse (minimum CL 11th)**: The victim heals damage from rest at half normal rate, and any magical healing applied to the victim must succeed at a DC 20 Caster Level check or be negated. The cursed victim takes a -4 penalty on all Constitution-based checks, including stabilization checks and Fortitude saving throws.  
  
**Wicker Man Curse (minimum CL 15th)**: -6 penalty to two ability scores chosen by the caster. In addition, each time the victim takes damage from any source, it takes an additional 1d6 points of fire damage as its flesh burns and blisters around the wound. It takes a -6 penalty on all saving throws against fire effects. Unless it has the Fire subtype, the victim loses any racial resistance or immunity to fire.
